# trabia
Microsoft Engage Project
    **FACE RECOGNITION PROJECT**

Trabia comes from a latin word '*trabea'* which means shift.

**Required libraries:**
opencv-python
tensorflow
pillow
numpy

**How to run:**
python app.py

**generate_dataset.py:** It is used to handle all of the camera related tasks like taking photos for datasets and also for face detection in the homepage and also for some minor image manipulation.

**Tensorflow:** It is python library for fast numerical computing. It is foundation library that can be used to create deep learning models. It takes images and labels from the folder 
            previously generated by generate dataset function then it passes the images through VGG16 layer and many other layers to crfeate transfer learning model and then generates
            a model life.

**utils.py:**  This file contains functions which detect any face in the camera field and tells its location.

 **app.py:**  This contains guis and combines all the files together.

**Classes in app.py:**

***class tkinter app:*** This is the base gui calss of the application.

***class attendance page:*** This page contains video fields and buttons and a button to add attendance to the csb file and another button to register a new face to the app.

***class add face:*** This filed contains a button to add a new face to the dataset and this class calls in the generate dataset file to achieve the purpose. It also contains a button to go
                to the model training page.

***class training model:*** It contains button to retrain the tensorflow model which includes the new images added to the dataset. It calls the train.py file for the purpose.

***class Myvideo capture:*** It contains code to access the web cam and detect the face by using the tensorflow model.

 
